bluetooth: sdc: Add sample for the event trigger feature (#13953)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: samples/bluetooth/connection_event_trigger/README.rst

.. _ble_connection_event_trigger:

Bluetooth: Event Trigger
########################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The Bluetooth® Event Trigger sample showcases the Event Trigger feature, a proprietary
extension of the Bluetooth® protocol which can be used to schedule sampling, GPIO toggling, or other SW- or HW-based
user activities in synchronization with individual BLE role instances, such as a central or peripheral link.

Requirements
************

> The sample supports the following development kits:

Reviewer: Could you add a note about how it works and why it can't work on 53-app? I.e. the requirement for the PPI triggered from the LL.

Also could it work on the app core? I thought we had a PPI bridge. Or I'm confusing with 54?

Author: To use this on the app core on 53 I imagine you would need to implement some kind of IPC, each core has its own DPPI controller and I don't know of any hardware-based way to somehow link them

Reviewer 2: There is https://infocenter.nordicsemi.com/index.jsp?topic=%2Fps_nrf5340%2Fipc.html&cp=4_0_0_6_15_0&anchor=unique_459239316, which seems similar to the IPCTs on 54H, but I have never used them.

Building and running
********************
.. |sample path| replace:: :file:`samples/bluetooth/connection_event_trigger`

.. include:: /includes/build_and_run.txt

Testing
=======

After programming the sample to both development kits, test it by performing the following steps:

1. Connect to both kits with a terminal emulator (for example, nRF Connect Serial Terminal).
   See :ref:`test_and_optimize` for the required settings and steps.
#. Reset both kits.

   - You will be prompted::

      Choose device role - type c (central) or p (peripheral):

#. In one of the terminal emulators, type "c" to start the application on the connected board in the central (tester) role.
#. In the other terminal emulator, type "p" to start the application in the peripheral (peer) role.
#. Observe that the kits establish a connection.

   - Each kit outputs the following information::

       Press any key to switch to a 10ms connection interval and set up connection event trigger

#. Press a key in either terminal.
#. Observe that the link switches from a 100ms connection interval to a 10ms connection interval.

> #. The event trigger is configured to generate a software interrupt at each connection event for the link. During these software interrupst, a timestamp is recorded.

Reviewer: typo `interrupts`

#. Observe that these timestamps are printed in the terminal. Note that the delta between triggers generally matches the connection interval, but that if the controller is not able to schedule a radio event for a given point in time, the event trigger will also be dropped.
#. Observe the central switches back to a 100ms connection interval.

Sample output
=============

> - The test should output something similar to the following::

Reviewer: s/test/sample

.. _ble_connection_event_trigger:

Bluetooth: Event Trigger
########################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

> The Bluetooth® Event Trigger sample showcases the Event Trigger feature, a proprietary
> extension of the Bluetooth® protocol which can be used to schedule sampling, GPIO toggling, or other SW- or HW-based
> user activities in synchronization with individual BLE role instances, such as a central or peripheral link.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Bluetooth® Event Trigger sample showcases the Event Trigger feature.
It is a proprietary extension of the Bluetooth® protocol and can be used to schedule sampling, GPIO toggling, or other SW- or HW-based user activities in synchronization with individual |BLE| role instances, such as a central or peripheral link.
```

Author: This fails to build the docs:

/home/runner/work/sdk-nrf/sdk-nrf/ncs/nrf/doc/_build/nrf/src/samples/bluetooth/connection_event_trigger/README.rst:10: ERROR: Undefined substitution referenced: "BLE".

Reviewer 3: Huh, I guess we only have the shortcut in nrfxlib. So `|BLE|` should be replaced with `Bluetooth LE`.

Requirements
************

The sample supports the following development kits:

.. table-from-sample-yaml::

You can use any two of the development kits mentioned above and mix different development kits.

Additionally, the sample requires a connection to a computer with a serial terminal for each of the development kits.

> Note that the Event Trigger feature involves triggering a (D)PPI task directly from the SoftDevice Controller link layer,
> and therefore it is expected that the application and SoftDevice Controller are running on the same core.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Note that the Event Trigger feature involves triggering a (D)PPI task directly from the SoftDevice Controller link layer, so it is expected that the application and SoftDevice Controller are running on the same core.
```

Building and running
********************
.. |sample path| replace:: :file:`samples/bluetooth/connection_event_trigger`

.. include:: /includes/build_and_run.txt

Testing
=======

After programming the sample to both development kits, test it by performing the following steps:

1. Connect to both kits with a terminal emulator (for example, nRF Connect Serial Terminal).
   See :ref:`test_and_optimize` for the required settings and steps.
#. Reset both kits.

>    - You will be prompted::

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   You will be prompted::
```

      Choose device role - type c (central) or p (peripheral):

> #. In one of the terminal emulators, type "c" to start the application on the connected board in the central (tester) role.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#. In one of the terminal emulators, type ``c`` to start the application on the connected board in the central (tester) role.
```

> #. In the other terminal emulator, type "p" to start the application in the peripheral (peer) role.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#. In the other terminal emulator, type ``p`` to start the application in the peripheral (peer) role.
```

#. Observe that the kits establish a connection.

>    - Each kit outputs the following information::

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   Each kit outputs the following information::
```

       Press any key to switch to a 10ms connection interval and set up connection event trigger

#. Press a key in either terminal.

> #. Observe that the link switches from a 100ms connection interval to a 10ms connection interval.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#. Observe that the link switches from a 100 ms connection interval to a 10 ms connection interval.
```

> #. The event trigger is configured to generate a software interrupt at each connection event for the link. During these software interrupts, a timestamp is recorded.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#. The event trigger is configured to generate a software interrupt at each connection event for the link.
   During these software interrupts, a timestamp is recorded.
```

#. Observe that these timestamps are printed in the terminal. Note that the delta between triggers generally matches the connection interval, but that if the controller is not able to schedule a radio event for a given point in time, the event trigger will also be dropped.

> #. Observe the central switches back to a 100ms connection interval.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#. Observe that the central switches back to a 100 ms connection interval.
```

Sample output
=============

> - The sample should output something similar to the following::

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The sample displays the data in the following format::
```

> - The s/test/sample should output something similar to the following::

Reviewer: When I said `s/test/sample` it meant [replace](https://www.gnu.org/software/sed/manual/html_node/The-_0022s_0022-Command.html) `test` by `sample`. Sorry should've been more explicit.
